Hi everybody and welcome back in the last lecture we got a nice simple introduction to strings.
I'm going to continue continue to build on that introduction throughout the next few lectures.
So in this lecture we're going to be talking about concatenating strings.
Now if you're anything like me you have to google what concatenate means.
And if you did you're not alone because when I first start learning programming languages so did I.
So let's just take a quick look at what concatenation means concatenate means to link things in a chain
or a series.
Quite simply it means to combine things.
And that's what we're going to be doing in this example.
We are going to be combining strings here you say why can't I just type in a full sentence for a sentence
or a string of characters.
Well that's a good question.
And let's take a look starting with our previous example.
So we enter in our variable and we enter in the name so you can put in your own name here.
OK.
So we have a string and a string is my name.
Tony Stuart but what happens if I want to output my program my first name or my last name.
We might be working with a piece of software where it says hi.
Your first name.
So hi Tony.
Welcome back.
Or you might be writing an email template and it might be and might be.
Dear Mr.
And then your last name.
We can't really do that here because this is all one string and pikemen doesn't know which is the first
name on which is the last name to in.
This all just one string.
So how do we do that.
How do we give it individual first name and last name and then how do we combine them to make a full
name.
Well let's take a look.
Let me get rid of that and we'll start off with first name.
So that's our first variable equals Tony and our last name equals Staunton OK so there we go.
And later on the lecture where we talk about how to receive input from our users.
But for now we can just imagine that we have a piece of software.
We have an interface on the web that is asked for a user's first name and last name.
So suppose you're building a piece of software that needs to store the first and last names in separate
variables like we have just here.
That piece of software my to combine them does display your own name.
So think of your signature in an email program when you log in.
It might say Hi Tony it might welcome you back to the software.
So how does that happen.
How do we do that.
Let's take a look.
So when I send an e-mail in my order populate my first name and in the opening signature so print So
imagine this is in your email software program and we open up our double quotes and we say hi we leave
a space and we quote close out of a quote.
We then enter in the plus symbol and we enter in the variable first name.
So there we go.
What's going to happen there is that we are going to get the message high on a first name.
In this example Tony what about if we were doing a more formal kind of email print that we open up a
double called again Dear believe that we live in space there clothes or double quotes.
Use the plus symbol again and we have a last name and I've actually just left out one small piece here.
Dear Mr..
And then a space and our last name.
And that's how.
And that's why it's a good idea to separate things such as names or anything that might be used as an
individual piece of information or data in its own variable.
So we've used first name and last name so let's run this and see what happens.
OK.
Down the bottom you have.
Hi Tony.
And dear Mr. Stanton.
So piking uses the plus symbol to combine strings with variables we have just used the plus symbol to
create a welcome message using the plus symbol to combine strings in Python is known as concatenation.
Let's try another one.
Print
first name and last name.
So again take your email program that might be welcome you might be a welcome message with your full
name.
So hi tony standard.
And if we run this again.
Oh OK.
So down the bottom here you can see the full name has been printed but there's no space between a name.
So where did the space go the space character.
Like any other character needs to be added in.
So let's do that.
So we have first name actually let's just type a new line so we can do it again.
Print first name plus.
So instead of just going straight the last name we want to add in a space.
So again we open for open and close with our double quotes type in a space and then add in our last
name so let's run the US and there we have it.
Tony standon Well a nice space.
So going back to what we said it started this lecture.
Concatenation means to combine things.
So in Python it is.
You use it to combine strings or strings with variables to make complete sentences.
So I hope all of that makes sense.
If not please don't hesitate to ask me in the Q and A section of this course and if it does keep going.
Try the activities and I'll see you in the next lecture.
Thank you.